[Italian instrumental music playing]
Don Paul-eone.
-Is it done?
-I put a loaf of bread in his bed.
Good. He won't sleep for weeks.
Crumbs in a bed are a nightmare.
[chuckles] I have news.
A new addition to the family.
[Italian instrumental music continues]
Breadfather.
[Paul] It's day one of series 14.
Why has it taken so long
to come to see me?
I don't mean to brag, Breadfather,
but I've been very busy.
Daytime TV, hosting the BAFTAs,
and I was in a Stormzy video.
-He's a grime artist.
-Ah.
The Breadfather often says
that joining this family
is like making the perfect loaf of bread.
In order to rise, you first have to prove.
Someone call?
No, no, I said "prove" not "Prue".
-[chuckles]
-My mistake.
What do you say, Breadfather, is she in?
Welcome to the family.
-[whispers] Yes!
-You want to do the honours?
Welcome to The Great British Baking Show.
[whispers] Thank you.
-Are you eating dough balls again?
-They're stuck to the inside of my cheeks.
[screeching]
I don't really know how I got here.
Feel like I'm a bit lost.
You know you can do experience days.
It feels like I'm on one of them.
Oh, I'm really terrified.
[Noel] Thousands of amateur bakers
from across Britain applied.
[woman 1] I had success
at my village show.
And that made me think, "Give it a shot.
What's the worst that can happen?"
[Noel] Twelve have made it
to the Baking Show tent.
[woman 2] Is this really happening?
My little tum is going like
a washing machine.
[Noel] Over the next ten weeks,
they'll face 30 brand-new challenges.
I'm thinking, "One week at a time,
one bake at a time."
If it goes wrong,
we'll just key Paul's car.
[laughs]
[Noel] Every aspect
of their baking skill will be tested.
[gasps]
I wasn't expecting
my first technical to go like this.
[Noel] Everything they bake
will be judged by Prue Leith…
That is the cutest little cake.
…and Paul Hollywood.
It looks like it's been run over.
[woman 3] I feel like
I'll just get lost in Paul's eyes.
We'll have to keep it PG, unfortunately.
I can't see.
[Alison] Each week,
those that rise, we crown Star Baker.
Can you believe it? Yes!
-This is huge.
-Stop ramping up the pressure.
[both laugh]
-[Alison] Those that crumble…
-Baking for my life.
-…will leave the tent.
-Lovely out there.
[Alison] But who will go on to win…
Why this is doing to me?
-It'll take you ages to wash that off.
-You're putting me off my stride.
…The Great British Baking Show?
So, Nicky, tell us about your beaver.
[all laughing]
[opening theme music playing]
[Alison] It's Cake Week,
and after three challenges,
we'll crown our first Star Baker,
but one baker will have to leave the tent.
Hello, bakers. Welcome.
Lovely too see you all.
Welcome to the tent.
Now, before we start,
I know what you're thinking.
Things look a bit different this year.
That's right.
Paul's had his beard reshaped.
I think it's a triumph, personally.
Also, we have a new host.
-So, let's welcome to the tent, Alison.
-Oh, thanks, Noel.
Hi, everyone!
I am so excited to be joining the show.
I'm thrilled to meet you bakers.
Lovely to see you all.
Also can I introduce you to Daryl.
A BSL interpreter for one of the bakers.
-Welcome to the tent.
-Thank you.
It's time for your first
ever signature challenge.
The judges would like you to make
a vertical layer cake.
Now, the judges are looking
for perfectly baked sponge
which will be rolled with a filling,
so that when sliced,
it will reveal neat, vertical layers.
You've got two hours.
-This is what you're looking forward to.
-Can't wait. Let me get ready.
-Hold hands?
-Let's do it together.
-Want to kick it off?
-Yeah.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
Bake!
That was amazing.
[chuckles]
[in sing-song voice]
Ooh, it's actually happening.
Just trying to process it all
at the moment. It's just a mad experience.
I am baking for my life.
[laughs] Ahhh!
How long have we got left? [chuckling]
I know we've just started,
but I'm already panicking.
Vertical layered cake.
It's a bit like a Swiss roll standing up.
So when you cut into it,
you see these very strong lines.
We want cleanly defined vertical layers
of cake, filling, cake, filling, cake.
We expect a bit of height to these cakes.
Colour, plenty of flavours.
If the bakers say,
"I've got apple, pineapple,
I've got lemon in there."
I wanna taste it.
If the bakers don't get their cakes
into the oven in time,
get them out, get them cooled
before they fill them and decorate them,
they're going to be too warm,
they'll lose shape, they'll slump.
Or we'll have a disaster.
-[Paul] Morning, Rowan.
-How, you doing? Oh, my gosh!
It's real. Hello.
What are you making?
I'm making a chocolate
and raspberry vertical cake.
It's inspired by a birthday cake I made
for my 21st, which was a wedding cake.
[Noel] 21-year-old Rowan
from West Yorkshire
is this year's youngest baker,
and is studying English at university.
Put it in the right place
or the librarian will kill you.
[Noel] His vertical wedding cake
will see dark chocolate sponge
wrap around a raspberry Swiss buttercream.
-A wedding cake for your 21st birthday?
-[laughs] Yeah.
I love you.
It's because you're worth it.
That's the thing. Self-love.
[laughs]
[Noel] Whilst Rowan plans
to tie the knot with himself…
Nervous as anything.
…Nicky's aiming to marry
two classic flavours.
[Nicky] It's an orange and lemon cake
because myself and my sister,
used to play a skipping game
to "Oranges and lemons,
sing the bells of St Clements."
[Alison] Nicky grew up in Dundee.
And after a career in the skies,
she landed in the West Midlands, close
to her granddaughters Edie and Matilda.
En Garde! Ha!
[Alison] She hopes to take off
in the competition
with a blood orange Swiss roll sponge
lemon curd, and an orange
and rosemary syrup.
-Cabin crew.
-[chuckles]
Does that mean you're gonna present
all your bakes on a little rectangle tray?
[laughs] Yeah.
"There you go, Paul.
Paul, put your seatbelt on and try this."
[laughs]
[Alison] Dan's also hoping
to land a British classic.
I'm doing
a rhubarb and custard cake today,
with rhubarb out of my garden.
[Alison] Dan is a resources planner
and lives in Cheshire
with his wife, Natalie,
-and sons, Sam and Rory.
-[Dan] Oh, Rory.
[Alison] As well as growing rhubarb,
he's recently begun brewing his own beer.
Tastes absolutely awful.
[Noel] He'll add fresh rhubarb
compote to his filling,
and cover his cake in cream cheese icing.
What about decoration?
[Dan] I've poached rhubarb slices,
that'll go round the outside.
It's very pink and very me.
-Good luck.
-[Dan] Thank you.
Good luck.
I just wanna tell you one thing.
I don't like rhubarb,
so please don't take offence.
I'm gonna win you over.
I'll win you over.
[Amos] It derives from Jaffa cake,
which I used to have always as a kid.
The main stars are the dark chocolate
and the blood orange.
[Alison] Amos is a delicatessen manager
from Nottingham
and still bakes with him mum, Antoinette.
His vertical Jaffa cake features
blood orange and dark chocolate
in two contrasting decorative drips.
[Amos] It has blood orange flavour
in the actual sponge as well.
I think I'm going a bit ahead of myself,
so I need to slow down, maybe.
That's what my mum
always says, "Slow down."
[Noel] The judges are expecting
a light, fluffy sponge,
but it still needs
to be flexible enough to roll.
I've gone for a classic
Swiss roll recipe, really.
Nothing fancy.
[Noel] But not everyone's gone
for a classic.
[Tasha] I'm making a génoise sponge
because I always see génoise on Bake Off.
It's just a Swiss roll
on its end.
And I can't help but think… why?
[Noel] Tasha lives in London.
Before working
for a children's charity,
she was a ski instructor in Japan.
[Tasha laughing]
She'll attempt to roll
her black sesame génoise sponge
around a sharp lime and yuzu curd.
-Are you happy?
-No.
I'm looking around and everyone else
has gone for a more robust sponge.
Just don't look into Paul's eyes,
that's all.
He's tried standing there
several times now,
-and I've just been…
-What was his face like?
-I don't wanna do an impression--
-Do an impression.
[laughs]
That's it. That's it. That's perfect.
[Alison] The thin sponge for a vertical
layer cake bakes in minutes.
[Tasha] Wish me luck.
[Alison] A fraction too long in the oven,
it will crack as soon as it's rolled.
-But for his giant wedding cake…
-[Rowan] Ahhh!
[Alison] …Rowan will need to perfectly
bake three sponges at the same time.
We'll make it work.
Do you think it'll work?
[Noel] And Cristy is aiming just as high.
Try and get them
all in at the same time.
I'm making
a lemon meringue-like vertical cake.
So, sort of, based on my mum's
lemon meringue recipe.
[Noel] Cristy grew up in East London
with her dad, Rod, and mum, Michelle.
She now has four children of her own
and works as a PA.
Her sponge curd and buttercream
will feature
three different types of lemon.
Limoncello, lemon juice, lemon zest.
If they don't taste the lemon
then I don't know what I've done wrong.
[Alison] Saku is also planning
a family favourite.
I'm making lemon and blueberry
vertical layer cake.
Have you made it before?
Several times.
This is my husband's favourite cake.
[Alison] Saku is an intelligence analyst
living in Hereford
where she plays for a local cricket team
started by her daughter, Therindi.
-[woman] Shot.
-[Therindi] Shot!
[Alison] Her cake will feature a sharp
lemon cream cheese icing
and blueberry buttercream.
Blueberry often has very pale flavour.
Are you adding essence
or anything to boost it up a bit?
I made a blueberry reduction,
so I'm using that to the buttercream.
Love the idea of the flavours.
They sound good.
Are you a bit nervous?
Lot nervous. [laughs]
[Alison] Aw.
Here you are. Come here.
-Aw, thank you very much.
-Is that better?
-That's really better. Yes, much better.
-[Alison] Aw.
-Thank you, Paul.
Thank you very much.
-Aw.
-Good luck.
[Saku giggling] Thank you.
Can you believe it? Yes!
Made my day.
[man] I am making chocolate orange cake
in honour of my father, really.
He served in the Second World War
and he was a prisoner of war.
Because he was on starvation rations,
I think he became
quite indulgent after that.
So, he'd be stocking up on Christmas
chocolates from about October onwards.
[Noel] Keith is a chartered accountant
and lives in Hampshire
with his partner Sue
and their poodle Maisie.
[Keith] Maisie, give us the ball.
-[laughs]
-[barks]
[Noel] He's making a ganache
by melting his dad's favourite chocolate
and adding an extra touch
to his whipped cream filling
for someone else.
I've put some orange liqueur in there
and normally, you put a bit less
than the recipe suggests
but I'm not sure that dialling down
the booze is gonna float Prue's boat.
-[laughs] Should've gone way over.
-[chuckles]
[Noel] Your first ever time call.
-Can I do it? Is that all right?
-Of course.
-I'll just support you.
-Thank you.
[laughs]
Bakers, you're halfway through.
You have one hour left.
-I don't need to be here any more.
-[laughs]
-You've got this.
-No, don't. Come back. Come back.
Cake out time, no going back.
[Alison] Time and heat
are now the bakers' two biggest worries.
Can't see a thing. [laughs]
I can't see.
[Alison] The sooner they begin
cooling their sponges…
Think that's done.
…the less chance their vertical
layer cakes will collapse when filled.
Okay, my tops one's gonna come out.
My other two aren't.
Really happy… so far.
[exhales] Right, my sponges aren't done.
One of them's done well
and then the bottom one has just sunk.
[Noel] Tasha's gamble on a génoise sponge
doesn't seem to be paying off.
[Tasha] It's all tipped over the…
Oh, I know why.
[gasps] Tasha, you're an idiot. Okay.
Mmm, I used the wrong rack.
So it's tilted all the mixture
to one side.
It means that some of the layers
won't be the same thickness.
But I'm not gonna tell them that.
So I'm rolling up my sponge.
I'm gonna quickly get it chilled.
So that whilst they're cooling,
they've got a nice rolled-up shape.
Result! [laughing]
Get in!
[Tasha] So wonky.
I can work around it, I think.
[Noel] The bakers need to use every minute
that their rolled sponges are cooling
to perfect the fillings
that will sandwich their vertical layers.
[Keith] Mmm.
[Saku] Blueberry buttercream.
Yes! Lovely! [laughs]
In the rhubarb crème pat,
putting some custard powder in it
to give it that proper authentic retro
rhubarb and custard flavour.
We didn't have crème pat
when I was a kid. Sorry, Mum.
[Noel] For their filling, one baker's gone
a bit further than the back garden.
I'm using as much foraged stuff as I can.
They're wild blackcurrants
and wild poppy seeds.
Wild poppy seeds are unusual.
[Alison] When Abbi isn't working
at an organic farm in Cumbria,
she forages for ingredients
to add to her home baking.
[Abbi] A little slug.
Give it a wash before we use it.
[Alison] As well as poppy seeds
and blackcurrants
for her sponge and buttercream,
Abbi's also foraged for her decoration.
-[Abbi] Those are gorse petals.
-[Alison] You foraged these?
[chuckles] I did.
It must feel so nice
when you forage your own fruit and veg.
-[Abbi] Yeah.
-Then you make your own cakes.
-It's lovely.
-Absolutely.
When I hear some
of the flavour combinations,
I'm like, "Wow,
how have you thought of that?"
It's a take on a tiramisu.
So it's a coffee cake
with coffee mascarpone cream.
[Noel] Sports fanatic Matty
is a PE teacher
and lives and works in Cambridgeshire.
[exhaling sharply]
[Noel] The punchy coffee flavour
in his sponge and mascarpone filling
should be balanced
with a light vanilla buttercream.
The buttercream,
it looks like someone's sick.
Don't zoom in on that.
Curdled my buttercream.
[Alison] Matty will have to restart
his buttercream.
But I'm hiding the terror
through the smile.
[Alison] He's not the only one
attempting to balance a coffee cake.
I only drink caramel lattes.
I'm doing a coffee sponge
with salted caramel buttercream.
[Noel] Dana is a database administrator
and lives in Essex
with her cockapoo, Gracie.
Her salted caramel buttercream will fill
a coffee sponge soaked with coffee syrup.
[Dana] The caramel's sweet,
so I wanna balance out the flavours.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
This is buttercream take two.
Goes quick, doesn't it?
[Nicky] Tell me about it.
[Alison] The bakers' time
and heat issues get even harder.
[Dan] She's a beauty.
[Alison] Fill and roll
their sponges too late…
Chill out.
…they won't have time
to perfect their decoration.
It's pretty much there.
It's at room temperature.
[Noel] But fill and roll a warm sponge…
If anything is remotely warm,
it's game over.
…and their vertical
layer cake will collapse.
What's the best thing to do?
[Nicky] It's a waiting game now, isn't it?
Let's try a bit of your ganache.
[indistinct chatter]
Ooh, it's fab.
Oh, my gosh. I need a drink.
I could do with a caramel latte.
[laughing]
Quick slug of coffee.
[slurps]
Can I have a cup of tea, please?
All right. Yeah. Do or die now.
I think my sponges are sufficiently cooled
that I can put the filling in now.
[Alison] Unless the ratio of filling
to sponge is completely even…
I've got my black sesame cream
and now I'm gonna add the yuzu curd.
…the bakers won't achieve
the perfect vertical stripes
that the judges have demanded.
[Saku] Blueberry reduction goes first.
Then, the blueberry buttercream.
It does come up lovely.
I like it. [giggles]
I can't give that to anyone.
[Alison] Matty's second attempt
at the buttercream
has gone about as well as his first.
I've just not been patient
with making this warm enough.
[Noel] How's it going?
[Matty] I keep curdling my buttercream.
Just a baking competition, don't worry.
-[Matty] Cheers.
-[laughs]
If it goes wrong,
we'll just key Paul's car.
Right, moment of truth.
[Amos] Slow down. Just take your time.
[Noel] Slightest crack
in the sponge at this stage…
[Abbi] Oh, we've got
a bit of naughtiness here.
[Noel] …and once stood on its end,
gravity will force it open.
[Keith] I'm almost there.
[Noel] Making the cake lean…
-[Dan] Behave.
-[Noel] …or worse.
Look at that. So clever, I didn't realise
it was like a roll like that.
Like a Russian doll.
I'm gonna put 'em all in each other.
It's gonna be huge and tall.
[Alison] And while
some are going for scale…
Gonna wrap the other two sponges
round that.
Have I got one more to do? Oh, yeah.
…Josh is focused on design.
There's the two different coloured sponges
and they should sort of alternate.
[Noel] Josh is a chemical biology
researcher living in Leicestershire.
He tests his bakes
at his local rugby club.
No soggy bottoms here, Josh.
[all laughing]
[Alison] He'll roll his alternating
coloured sponges
around passion fruit curd
and coconut buttercream.
-A baking rugby player.
-Yeah.
Once a month, I take them
into the changing rooms.
Basically 20 or 30 naked men
try out your food?
-Yeah.
-[laughing]
In the changing rooms,
us covered in mud.
I'm in trouble.
It's just all sticking to the paper.
This is the first time
it's happened like this. Oh, how cliché.
[Noel] And Amos
isn't the only one struggling.
[Tasha] It's cracking.
I don't really know why I did a génoise.
[Saku] Ahhh!
Don't do this for me.
Why this is doing to me?
Why?
See? It's sticking.
[Amos] Oh, my God.
-Look at that. Precious little fella.
-Aw…
Very stressful.
Everyone wants a handshake from Paul
and you've already had a hug.
-Oh, exa--
-You don't need a handshake now.
-Yes!
-[laughs]
Where can you go from a hug?
Home.
Fifteen minutes left.
Time's against us a wee bit now.
I'm no longer using buttercream.
I never wanna see it again.
And we're gonna use
more coffee mascarpone cream.
I think we have enough.
It's not a circle.
So I'm piping tactically.
Thickest crumb coat you've ever seen
to try and disguise what's going on.
[Nicky] I've got shaky hands.
[Dan] Rhubarb slices.
Like trimming my hedge.
[Keith] Try and make it look attractive.
[Rowan] So, I've got some light pinks,
some dark pinks.
Oh, it's so messy.
-[Josh] I don't wanna overdo it.
-I wish I liked rhubarb.
I'd be all over that.
[Keith] I've tried to raise
my prettiness game this last year or so.
-Is that your forte? Prettiness?
-So I'm rather-- No.
It's one of the reasons
it's taken me 14 years to apply.
[both laugh]
[Dana] It's a bit lopsided.
I think it's fair to say there's prettier
drip cakes on display.
My chocolate drip is splitting.
-One minute.
-Oh, my God.
[Matty] Just to make it look
a little bit civilised.
It's not quite as I envisaged.
[Tasha] Oh, my God.
Bakers, your time is up.
Please step away
from your vertical layer cakes.
Well done.
I feel like I've run a marathon.
That looks so good.
I could put my face in that.
Think I'll get away with that?
It's leaning.
[Alison] The bakers
will now face the judgement
of Paul and Prue for the very first time.
-Hello, Rowan.
-Hello.
Hi, Rowan.
-It's tall, isn't it?
-I don't go in halves.
[Paul] Not sure I'll get it all out.
-There you go.
-[Rowan] Oh, no. Oh, okay.
[Prue] Now that is a perfect example
of a vertical cake.
-I like it.
-Do you?
-[Paul] Yeah.
-Oh!
It's delicate.
-Yeah.
-[Paul] But the flavours are there.
-Buttercream's terrific. Well done.
-Thank you.
Just be aware of the strength
of flavours that you put in.
Now the colours work.
Vibrant and the cake looks amazing.
But I actually think
you've overbaked your sponges.
But the flavour is sensational.
[Paul] There's been issues
with the drip effect.
[Noel] Look at that.
-[Paul] The layers aren't even.
-Chocolate dominates.
Not a lot of orange.
Okay.
-[Prue] It looks lovely.
-[Paul] It's a good height. Wow.
-[Prue] Beautiful lines.
-[Cristy] Thank you.
I think it's delicious.
Oh, do you? [chuckles]
I think your flavour, you are 60% there.
Don't be afraid to really punch us
in the teeth with citrus flavours.
Looks like a barrel. Bit like me actually.
-Well…
-I don't think it's terrible.
-That's good. You can--
-[Prue] He does--
He's just damning with faint praise.
He doesn't think it's terrible.
[Paul] I like the layers. They're even.
[Prue] Yes,
the layers are good.
The flavour is very subtle
and it is delicious.
It's just not punchy enough.
Maybe it's one of these
that kind of just grows on you.
Like a fungus.
-[all laugh]
-[laughing] Paul. You're doing well.
-A beautiful fungus.
-Barrel. Fungus.
[Prue] Can't take him anywhere.
I like that informal cornucopia look.
Very nice vertical stripes.
-This is the wild poppy?
-Yeah. Wild poppy seeds.
[inhales sharply]
It's delicious.
[Paul] The flavour's come through.
They're nice and punchy.
The balance of the texture of the cake
and the buttercream is beautiful.
Thank you.
-[Paul] It's a bit messy.
-Yes.
-The pipping's not particularly good.
-[Dana] Mmm-hmm.
[Prue] Well,
those are pretty good stripes.
I must say, the flavour's lovely.
Not too salty.
[chuckles] Don't make a face like that.
-It is a bit wobbly.
-[Paul] I like the colours. It's stark.
-Let's look at this wobbly tower.
-[Noel] Wow.
[Prue] The stripes are there.
[tapping spoon on plate]
-Ooh.
-[Noel] What's happened?
I got the sharpness from the outside.
-Ah.
-Ah, cream cheese.
Which brings that sour
and the sweet together.
Love the flavours.
I think the real achievement
is to get real flavour out of blueberries
which are really not
the easiest fruit to make taste great.
[mouthing] Yes!
It's coffee cake and a mascarpone cream
that ended up being outside and inside
due to my inability
to make a buttercream.
-Okay.
-[all chuckle]
[Prue] There you are.
-That'd wake you up in the morning.
-It certainly is strong.
[Paul] That coffee level is perfect.
It's a muscular cake.
-Yeah.
-[chuckling]
[Prue] It's very nice.
[chuckling] You made a hefty,
muscular, powerful cake.
[laughs]
Dan, that is the cutest little cake.
-[Paul] It looks like a circus tent.
-It does.
-[Prue] Beautiful stripes.
-[Paul] Nice lines.
-[Prue] Well done.
-Thank you.
That is rhubarb and custard.
It's a beautiful cake. It's very light.
And with the crème pat and the rhubarb,
the slice is quite moreish. Good job.
-Oh, thanks, Paul. Cheers.
-Tiny circus tent.
-I know. Yeah. Brilliant.
-Loved it.
It looks so dramatic
and the colours are so strong contrast
-and they look so wonderful.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-This is just cream then?
-[Keith] It's whipped cream
with orange liqueur.
Mmm. It's delicious.
-Oh, my God!
-[Prue] Absolutely delicious.
The cream is so light
against the density of the chocolate,
and then that orange liqueur,
it is absolutely delicious.
I could happily eat all of that.
-Well done.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Thank you.
-Nailed it.
Boozy Prue.
[Noel chuckles]
Dear me.
Did you sit on it?
-[Prue laughs]
-[chuckles] There were some problems.
[all laugh]
But you know what?
Its flavour might save it.
You've certainly got the stripes.
I think you've got too much
filling to cake, though.
That is very unusual.
And rather delicious.
-Wow. Thank you.
-[Paul] But if you'd used
less of the filling
and more of the sponge…
-[Prue] Hmm.
-…that would've been brilliant.
I think it looks terrible.
[Tasha and Noel chuckle]
But I love the flavours and textures.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Well done.
Hope you softened
some of Paul's rudeness. [chuckles]
[sighs heavily]
It was such a mixed bag,
but it was definitely leaning
on the side of bad.
[Amos] I've learned
a lot today which I will bring
week after week after week, hopefully.
I'm flabbergasted.
I was worried that I wouldn't measure up.
The only way is probably that way now.
[Alison] Each week, the bakers
will face a second challenge
that's a gingham-clad mystery.
It's time for your technical challenge,
which today has been set for you
by the big boss man, Paul Hollywood.
Bakers, this is the most iconic cake.
It has to look amazing on the outside and
inside it's gotta taste and look good too.
[Noel exhales] The technical challenge
will be judged blind.
We're going to ask these two lovelies
to pop outside the tent.
Bye!
Paul's gonna go
and look at some denim samples.
[laughter]
So, Paul would like you to make
the signature chocolate cake.
You know, the one
with the famous missing raspberry.
-Whatever happened to that raspberry?
-I've got it here.
In this golden box.
That's my pension.
-I'll be selling that on eBay.
-[Alison chuckles]
The judges are looking for two layers
-of moist…
-Moist.
…choco… [laughs]
Chocolate sponge covered and filled
with a silky-smooth chocolate ganache…
-[Alison] Ganache.
-[Noel] …topped with fresh raspberries.
You have two hours.
On your marks…
-Get set…
-Bake!
[Noel] The bakers have all been given
the same ingredients
and a pared-down recipe.
I know what the cake looks like.
I've been watching the show
since a young age,
and that dreaded raspberry.
I can finally rectify it. [laughs]
[Tasha] I've never really clocked anything
other than the raspberry,
so it's news to me that it's a cake.
[Rowan] It feels strange
to be doing the iconic Bake Off cake
on Bake Off. It's very meta.
I recognise this cake.
Probably one of the most
famous cakes in the UK.
It is actually a chocolate fudge cake,
but it comes down to the ganache.
You've gotta cool your ganache down
to a point, but not cold
because it'll be solid.
When it comes into contact
with a sponge, if it's warm,
it's just gonna run out.
They can use the fridges.
The issue when you use the fridge
with ganache,
-you can matt the chocolate.
-And we want shiny.
[Paul] Let's take a slice of this, Prue.
Straight away, you see the ganache
smack in the middle.
It's beautifully set, soft and luscious,
but not pouring out like a volcano.
This is a chocoholic's dream.
-Don't have any more, Prue.
-I can't help it.
We've gotta go in
and have 12 of these.
Well, you've more discipline than I have.
[chuckles softly]
"Melt and combine the chocolate,
butter and hot water."
I'm gonna start putting together
all the wet ingredients.
We've got sour cream,
vegetable oil, eggs and butter.
This is the iconic cake.
You see this cake
every single time you watch.
-This is huge.
-Stop ramping up the pressure.
[both laugh]
"Incorporate the melted chocolate mixture
before combining
with the dry ingredients."
Just using the spatula to fold it through.
Erm…
I feel like I've made a mistake.
I might have used twice as much chocolate
for the actual cake,
but I'm just
kind of hoping that it's fine.
Everyone loves a good chocolate cake.
-In the oven.
-[Nicky] You're going in.
Goodbye, see you laters.
Just says "bake," so it's very helpful.
Love that, Paul, don't you? [laughs]
I'll be baking the cakes for 35 minutes.
This is already set to 35.
Do you think that's a sign?
I'll try 30, first.
Or 35?
Thirty-five.
"Make the ganache filling/icing."
Not much to say about ganache, really.
It's not afraid to be itself.
I feel like I'm slightly
at an unfair advantage…
-Why?
-…as I made ganache this morning.
Feels like cheating.
That's why we're staring at you.
-[laughs]
-Is that why?
-It's looking good, looking silky smooth.
-It's lovely and glossy.
Could have a bath in that.
I'm hesitant to put it in the fridge.
I wanna keep it as shiny as possible.
If I stick it in the fridge,
it might not be shiny any more.
[Dan] Pop that there for a sec.
I think it's gonna take
a really long time to cool.
I'll be utilising the fridge.
Probably go all wrong, but I'm chilling.
-[Dana] I put the ganache in the freezer.
-Otherwise the ganache will get splodgy.
[Alison] Bakers,
you have one hour.
[Cristy] There's a good chocolate whiff
in this area.
-[Noel] How many times have you checked?
-I'm up to 450 now.
[Noel laughs]
How do you feel about things?
Probably been up
since about 4:00? [laughs]
Yeah. Half-three I woke up.
Do you lie in bed
thinking about what you're gonna do?
I'm like, "My God, I can't switch off."
Is it better when you imagine it?
-Yes.
-[laughs]
-Every time.
-Paul starts crying.
-Yeah. Prue--
-Prue faints.
-Worship me. I know.
-[laughs]
I think I'll give the top one a poke.
You want it, like, quite light and airy.
[Keith] There was an emphasis
on the word "moist."
It should come out
with a few crumbs attached.
-Aye-aye.
-Coming out clean.
-And aye-aye.
-Gonna get 'em out. I'm doing it.
-[Keith] Reasonably happy with them.
-[Tasha] They look okay. They're baked.
-[timer beeps]
-[gasps]
Wouldn't be Bake Off
without somebody wafting one of these.
The most important thing
is getting it chilled quickly,
so the ganache
doesn't just run all out of it.
Come on, wind. Now, yes.
This way.
[Matty] I just put it in the fridge.
The amount of time I have
is very disconcerting.
I was not expecting
my first technical to go like this.
Sitting about, looking at bumblebees
out the side of the tent.
Ah, it's lovely out there.
-Alison, would you like a sign name?
-I would love a sign name.
Like "Alison"?
-Alison?
-Yeah?
I love it. Have you got a sign name
for Paul Hollywood?
-You have, haven't you? What is it?
-[chuckles]
[Tasha] I have problems
getting my words out sometimes.
I tried to say Paul Hollywood
and I came out with "Pollywood."
-"Pollywood." [laughs]
-So now I call him Polly.
So, like, it's Polly, like the parrot.
[laughs]
Polly.
-This is Paul? Little Polly.
-Polly, Paul.
[laughs] I love it!
-You can't tell him.
-I won't, I promise.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
"Assemble the cake,
sandwiching the sponges
and icing the cake
with a smooth coating of ganache."
[Abbi] If you put ganache
on a warm cake…
[blows raspberry] …it will melt.
They're a little,
tiniest little bit warm.
If I was at home,
I'd have left them for an hour.
I haven't got an hour,
so gonna have to roll with them.
[Abbi] Wait till it's cold.
-Five more minutes.
-It would just be too warm.
This is the ganache to sandwich the cake.
The ganache has set
a bit too much in the fridge,
looks like I need to put it
in the microwave.
[Tasha] It's curdling all of a sudden.
I don't know why.
It was fine and now it's split.
I've been putting it
in and out of the fridge,
and maybe it's just not liked it.
I'm getting really impatient. Especially
when everyone else is cracking on.
[Alison] Guys, time is ticking.
-You've got 15 minutes.
-[plane whirring]
Can you hear that plane circling?
That's Paul Hollywood.
[laughs]
They're, like, room temperature.
[Amos] Just going for it.
[Dan] Silky smooth.
My beautiful ganache, which
has been perfect, has slightly split.
So I'm gonna add in a bit of butter,
to bring it back to emulsion.
[Cristy] I can't remember if the finish is
straight-edged or if it has a full ripple.
It needs to be really, really good
because it's so iconic.
Gotta do it justice.
So determined for it
not to look like someone sat on it.
Okay, you've got
five minutes left, bakers.
Five minutes left, okay.
[Amos] Onto the iconic raspberry.
Am I adding the missing raspberry?
[gasps]
It doesn't say whether to include
the raspberry or not.
[Alison] The raspberry, on or off?
-On. It needs to be done.
-Gonna replace the missing one?
How many sleepless nights
I've had over that missing raspberry.
Really? Like, "Why did they do that?"
I know it's got one missing,
so I've left the perfect gap.
[Dan] Got my one raspberry missing
in the middle.
I can't let myself miss out a raspberry.
I've watched it for so many years.
Why? Why is that missing raspberry?
It's here. [laughs]
It's here. You can put it on if you want.
I'm not gonna do it for you.
Okay, bakers, one minute.
I've got wobbles.
Finito.
Quite pleased. It's like in the picture.
[laughs]
Oh, God. Quick, shove it off.
[sighs] It's broken.
I'm happy with it,
but it's just my ganache.
[Nicky] Quick, we can do this. Mend it.
-Bakers, your time is up.
-Okay.
We're good, we're good. We're done.
Please bring your cakes down to the front
and place them behind your own photograph.
-[Dana] God.
-[Tasha] They look grand.
-Did you do a missing raspberry?
-Yeah. Did you?
-This is looking good, isn't it? So good.
-They're good.
-How dare they be this good this quickly.
-[Alison] I know!
Time to welcome the judges back in.
-We've missed you, Prue.
-We have.
[Alison] Paul and Prue are looking
for moist and light chocolate sponges
coated in a perfectly set,
smooth and shiny ganache.
And they have no idea whose is whose.
-It's gonna be difficult, I'm telling you.
-We will be nit-picking.
[Paul] We'll start with this one.
Straight off, no shine.
Messy around there as well.
But let's have a look inside.
-Wow.
-[Prue chuckles]
I can't believe we're gonna
have to taste 12 of these.
-[laughing] Chocolate cakes!
-[laughter]
[Paul] Nice flavour.
It's a shame about the colour.
Moving on to number two.
Now I like this.
The sharpness across the top.
That ganache has got a shine
and it is neat on the bottom.
-Good-looking cake.
-[Prue] Very clean.
[Paul] Let's have a look.
-It's really good chocolate fudge cake.
-[Paul] Hmm.
Wrong colour ganache.
The colour's too milky.
[Prue] And messy.
Mmm. Nicely made.
[Paul] Taken the wrong raspberry out.
-[Prue] Missing raspberry's at the edge.
-[chuckles] It is.
[Prue] It's a beautiful cake.
[Paul] Moving on to the next one.
You can see the crease.
Shouldn't look as if there are
two cakes there.
-[Paul] It should be one.
-[Prue] Ganache inside is very liquid.
-A bit messy.
-[Paul] Not bad 'cause it's a nice shine.
Nice sponge again.
The ganache is nearly there.
It's beautifully neat.
-It has got a shine to it.
-[Prue] Yeah.
-That's a beautiful cake.
-[Paul] It is.
-[Prue] This is the right colour.
-[Paul] But it's a bit matt.
[Prue] Not as shiny as some.
[Paul] It's a little bit warm,
the ganache.
-It's too liquid.
-Mmm.
Moving on to this one.
[Prue] You can see it's two cakes stacked.
It's got a waistband round it.
The ganache inside is still liquid.
[Paul] I like the neatness of this.
[Prue] Yeah. Very clean.
The sides are absolutely straight.
-[Paul] Hello.
-[Prue] That looks good.
[Paul] Good amount of ganache,
-and it's solid.
-[Prue] And it's set.
[Paul] Moving on.
It's a little bit light,
a little bit matt.
[Prue] Not quite set.
No, the timing again. Great taste, though.
[Prue] Doesn't look totally smooth,
the ganache.
-It's not light enough.
-[Paul] Looks a bit dense.
I know it is a fudge cake,
but it's too fudgy.
[Alison] Paul and Prue will now rank
the cakes from twelfth to first place.
You can all obviously make
a good, big chocolate cake.
-It's gonna be tight.
-In twelfth place,
we have this one. Who is this?
-It's me.
-[Prue] Dana.
The texture's a little bit dense.
In eleventh spot, we have this one.
Tasha, the fat rim of chocolate
running around the middle
is the big problem.
And then, in tenth place,
we have this one.
Nicky, it's a nice cake,
but the colour's not right.
[Noel] Rowan is ninth, Josh eighth,
Matty is seventh, Cristy sixth,
Saku is fifth, Keith is fourth,
and Abbi takes third.
And then, runner-up in second place,
is this one. Who is that?
Amos.
It's nice and shiny,
the cake is light, ganache is set.
Don't have any complaints
about it at all.
The winner is Dan.
-That's a great-looking cake. Well done.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Nice.
-[Prue] Good.
I am pretty much on cloud nine,
to be honest.
So, so happy, I really am, yeah.
I don't wanna compare, you know,
having babies to, er,
baking a good cake. [laughing]
[Nicky] It's not disastrous.
I'll take better than last.
Coming last is not the nicest.
Ugh. It's silly getting emotional,
it's just cake at the end of the day.
My signature looked
like someone sat on it.
And coming eleventh in the technical…
I'm not safe.
[Noel] Just one challenge remains
before we learn
who will be our first Star Baker
and who will be leaving the tent.
Class of 2023 are brilliant, aren't they?
Paul giving people hugs, what's happened?
-What's happened to you?
-I don't know.
Did you have a breakdown?
-[both laugh]
-[Prue] A bit worrying.
[Paul] There's quite a few of them
in line for Star Baker.
Especially the lads.
-Keith.
-[Paul] Dan.
[Alison] Strong.
[Paul] Abbi is
in that realm as well. Cristy.
[Prue] It's difficult to rate them
because those technicals
were all beautiful.
Is that the closest technical
we've ever had?
Almost nothing to choose between them.
[Paul] Dana, who was last in technical,
is always in a precarious position.
Tasha's struggled a little bit
in both challenges.
I don't think Amos did
massively well in the signature.
There's a huge bunch that could
possibly leave after the showstopper.
How many are you gonna get rid of?
-We're only allowed to send one.
-Ten.
[all laughing]
Morning, bakers.
This is your first showstopper challenge.
Prue and Paul would like you to create
an incredible cake,
shaped and decorated
in the form of an animal of your choosing.
Now, it could be anything,
from a cat-enberg to a…
Snake-well tart.
[Alison] You've got four hours for this.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
Bake!
I am so nervous,
I can't even cope right now.
So many elements going on here. So many.
I'm concerned that
the cake itself could collapse.
I need to get this right.
I don't wanna go home.
Now the bakers
get their first chance to show off,
to make a cake that resembles an animal.
Because the animals
are gonna be probably quite big,
they can use puffed rice
to create certain elements.
But the main body has to be sponge.
[Prue] I think there's a real danger,
the bakers get so obsessed
with how their animal looks,
that they'll forget
that it has to taste amazing.
If I was gonna do an animal cake,
silverback gorilla.
-[Prue and Noel] Hello, Keith.
-[Paul] You all right?
Morning, Prue, Noel.
Tell us about your animal cake.
My animal cake is a small poodle
that I'm a kind of stepfather to.
[Alison] Keith's
13-year-old poodle, Maisie,
will be built
from lemon and orange sponges
and her ageing coat will be made with
charcoal-coloured orange buttercream.
She's not a thing of rare beauty.
Are you trying to tell us
that if your cake looks terrible,
-it's because she's old?
-[Noel laughs]
You've seen straight
through me, Prue. Yes.
I am baking my dog, Gracie,
erm, my little angel.
Gonna be made out
of her favourite flavours,
banana and peanut butter.
I lie. Her favourite is chicken and beef,
but I can't put that in a cake.
[Noel] After a difficult first day,
Dana is hoping to avoid the doghouse
by adding a cinnamon crumble
to her Gracie banana cake
filled with peanut buttercream.
[Dana] I've practised this.
It's a good thing
dogs love you unconditionally
'cause she did not look herself.
[Noel] Dana and Keith aren't the only ones
putting their faith
in a four-legged friend.
-Is that your dog?
-It was.
He went to sleep last month.
He was nearly 18, so he's 17, so…
[Alison] He did really well.
This is quite a lot of pressure
-to get this right.
-It is.
[Alison] Dan's planning
to immortalise his dog, Bruno,
by decorating rich chocolate sponges
layered with ganache in a two-tone
chocolate French buttercream,
and his family have no idea.
So I practised the first one at home
and I put him in the fridge,
I was hiding it from everybody.
Unbeknown to my mum,
she opened the fridge,
"What is Bruno doing in the fridge?"
My eldest son is like,
"What you on about?"
Charged over to the fridge.
The dog's in the fridge.
[both laughing]
[Noel] Whilst the judges
will expect animal cakes
that are light and delicious…
Whoo. [sighs]
…to avoid collapse, the bakers
will need to create sponge
that's just robust enough
to survive being carved
into a lifelike shape.
This is my very dense sponge,
which is great for carving.
-Dense sponge?
-Yes.
Dense sponge is not appetising.
But with the caramel,
that changes everything.
[Alison] Amos aims to carve
his sturdy caramel sponges
sandwiched with apple buttercream
into a killer whale.
[Noel] Have you ever
seen one in real life?
I went to see one.
And the weather was bad
so it got cancelled.
I'm yet to see them.
-We're gonna see one today, though.
-You are.
[Noel] Cristy's making a sponge
from aquatic species
that's a little easier to spot.
[Cristy] I'm making a duck
because when my eldest daughter,
Ava, was younger,
that's something we used to do,
was go to the pond to feed the ducks.
[Alison] Cristy's sponges,
made with fresh and frozen raspberries,
will be sandwiched with raspberry
and almond liqueur jam,
and carved and decorated
to look like a mallard.
Who has tasted this at home
and what did they say?
-All the kids?
-Yeah, they--
-Did they love it?
-It's my daughter's favourite sponge.
They like it,
but they've seen the duck, yes, lots.
I think they think I'm losing my mind.
[Noel] Cristy's duck
won't be alone on the river.
My animal cake is the beaver.
-A beaver? [laughing]
-[Nicky] A beaver.
Why did you choose a beaver?
I dressed up once as a beaver.
[Noel chuckling]
I'm not even sure I know
what a beaver looks like, so…
[all laughing]
[Nicky] Stop it.
Quite, sort of, shapely.
[Alison] Nicky's future in the competition
rests on a chocolate and rum sponge
sandwiched with a blackberry jam,
and she's even given her beaver a name.
The lovely Norman.
-Norman the beaver?
-Norman the beaver.
-You've won already.
-[all laughing]
Congratulations, well done.
-You got a shake. You got a shake.
Thank you.
[Dan] They're going in.
[Noel] With multiple sponges needed
to create the building blocks
for their animals…
[Dan] Get in there.
[Noel] …the bakers will need
to juggle batch-baking.
[Abbi] Bake well, little cakes.
[Noel] As well as varying oven times.
-I'm baking them for 30 minutes.
-[timer beeping]
[Alison] But Tasha has
more to juggle than anyone else.
[Tasha] Six sponges.
That's just a lot to deal with.
They have to be okay,
I haven't got time to remake them.
[Alison] Tasha's six-sponge giant robin
will have dark chocolate
and ginger filling
featuring another
of her unusual ingredients.
Tahini?
-Tahini.
-Love tahini.
Tahini in a cake, never had that.
How big is it? Is it going to be
bigger than a robin I presume?
-It's about that tall.
-[Prue] Big.
Standing up or flying or…
It'll only be flying if it falls.
[Noel] To prevent
their animal cakes from falling,
the bakers will need a filling
that not only
holds their construction together…
Got a thick ganache, so I can set it,
stays quite rigid when I carve it.
…but that also complements
the flavours in their sponge.
[Dana] 450 grams of peanut butter
went in my peanut butter frosting.
In my opinion,
it's quite subtle, the taste.
This is my filling, buttercream.
It's just not tasting right,
so I keep adding more tahini.
[Nicky] Norman's coming to life
with a vanilla buttercream,
with some vanilla rum thrown in.
A boozy beaver, that is the best.
[Alison] Nicky's not the only one
hitting the bottle.
[Rowan] I'm making a lobster.
The flavours are inspired
by my favourite cocktail.
[Alison] Rowan's memories
of seaside trips when he was a boy
will be recreated with a lobster
that has the grown-up taste
of a cosmopolitan.
With Valencian orange sponge,
sharp lime curd and a cherry coulis.
[Rowan] Paul and Prue
said my flavours were good,
but intensify them, don't be scared.
So I'm not.
Just makes me wanna
put vodka in it, to be honest.
Bakers, you are halfway through,
you have two hours left.
Hey, I'm happy.
Boom.
[Nicky] Oh, not ready.
[Noel] While some sponges
are ready to cool and then carve…
[Amos] They're browning
in spots on the top,
which is not
what they've ever done before.
[Noel] …Nicky and Amos
could be falling behind.
[exhales heavily]
And they're not alone.
Tad bit under.
Hurry up, cake.
[Alison] Saku needs to bake two huge
orange and poppy seed sponges
for a sea turtle that she's given
a Sri Lankan name.
Tikiri the turtle.
Tikiri is, erm, "little" in my language,
as well as… [chuckles]
…it is my husband
and my son's middle name.
But they are very big people
for me. [laughs]
[Cristy] Just gonna take these edges off
before Paul sees.
They are what they are.
Lovely.
Just need to start to build up
the body of the dog.
This is my engineering background
coming into effect today.
Never built many dogs, that's the problem.
[Amos] So these need to cool down
the quickest they ever can.
[Noel] Whilst Amos
could be finally on his way
to constructing a killer whale,
Abbi has chosen to build on dry land.
I'm making a Herdwick sheep.
In fact, here he is.
[Noel] Herbert the Herdwick sheep
will be carved from ginger sponge,
sandwiched with salted caramel
Italian meringue buttercream,
rhubarb jam and a hazelnut praline crunch.
[Abbi] It's a very easy template
compared to some other bakers,
'cause it's just a fat, round sheep.
I'm just gonna cut out some ovals
and then stack them up
on top of each other.
[Alison] Grazing in the next field will be
something a little more complicated.
That was just my little plan.
I like precision, weighing everything out.
I said I'd do a cake for my mum.
This year, she's 60,
she said she'd like a highland cow,
'cause it's her favourite animal.
We've got fluffy toys and cushion covers,
and she's got mugs with it on.
[Alison] Josh's mum's highland cow
will be made with coffee, date
and walnut sponges,
filled with maple syrup caramel
and cream cheese icing.
I've got quite a stiff,
erm, filling for it
because the head of the cow is heavier
and I didn't wanna do
any supports in there,
I want to have it as a free-standing cake.
[Noel] Amos is also hoping to build
his killer whale without any supports.
♪ Be brave, Amos ♪
♪ As my mum would say ♪
[Noel] But without support,
the taller animal cakes
run the risk of extinction.
We'll start to hold them together
with some dowels.
[Tasha] I think it works.
Today is no time to be scared.
[groans] The buttercream is too soft.
[softly] The whole thing is just moving.
Stay, Bruno. Never did what he was told.
[Alison] Amos' killer whale cake
is drowning
in dense sponge and melting buttercream.
[Amos] I'm trying to prop it up
so it stays stiff in the fridge,
eventually, I'll be able to carve it.
Otherwise, there's no whale.
[Noel] How's Free Willy going?
It's all going wrong.
[Noel] I've got
a black-and-white sweatshirt.
-I'll be your killer whale.
-Perfect. Please.
I'll just sit cross-legged on the wave.
We can winch me in.
[both laughing]
[Alison] Some bakers
have planned to build animal cakes
with more than just
carved sponge and buttercream.
[Cristy] I'm just making the head
out of modelling chocolate.
It's a bit soft.
Then I'm gonna mix in puffed rice
to sculpt the sheep's head.
This is for the turtle head.
It's very sticky.
It's the stickiest substance known to man.
It'll take you ages to wash that off.
-June, I expect.
-[chuckles]
[Dana] Making Gracie's tennis ball.
She doesn't know how to do catch.
I throw the ball, she'll take it,
won't bring it back.
[laughs]
She'll play with it,
then expect me to go get it.
She's high status.
She's a diva.
This is the head and the legs.
[laughing, snorting]
Can't you tell?
[Noel] There's just one hour remaining.
-Gonna be tight.
-I should be assembling by now.
[Nicky] Gee whiz,
better get cracking.
[Amos] I'm gonna give it five minutes.
And hopefully, it will stiffen up.
This is Herbert's head.
[Noel] Even if the bakers have
completed their basic animal structures…
Just worried about my cake leaning.
…Prue and Paul will be looking
for impressive decoration.
I don't know if that's gonna
freak out the judges.
"Hi. What have you made?"
"A dead lobster."
He's alive.
Norman lives.
This part's difficult. Milk chocolate
and dark chocolate buttercream.
Looks like a rogue animal at the moment.
[Tasha] There'll be some tahini
in the buttercream as well
to pipe the feathers.
[Alison] But before
he can pipe his finish…
It is bad times,
'cause everyone's already on their way.
…Matty's had another issue
with buttercream.
Let me guess what you're making.
For that colour,
are you making an elephant?
It's supposed to be a black dog.
[Alison] Oh.
[Noel] Matty is attempting to recreate
his family's cocker spaniel Marty,
with lemon sponges filled with
lemon curd and fresh raspberries,
and a black coat
of Swiss meringue buttercream.
-[Alison] What you gonna do? It's grey.
-We'll pretend he's not black.
Got no more
food colouring that's black?
There is, but I don't wanna spend
half an hour trying to get black.
-[Alison] There're grey dogs out there.
-Thankfully.
These are legs, and that will be the head.
I have to cover his head in fondant.
Not very thin, not very thick.
[laughs]
[Alison] Fondant is heavy.
[Josh] This is always nervy
because once it's on,
you're pretty much committed.
[Alison] Its weight can press down
on the sponge beneath…
[Rowan] So come in nice and tight.
[Alison] …making the cake dense and heavy.
I'm moulding it with my fingers,
the detail of her eyes.
[Noel] Something that Amos
is yet to worry about.
[Amos] Got carving to do, then gotta
assemble it. It's not gonna be ready.
[Tasha] I've run out of red buttercream.
Which makes the front look messy,
and that's gonna annoy them.
[Nicky] Come on, Norman. We can do this.
[Amos] Still gotta
buttercream the whole thing.
Painting bit is the hardest part.
These are indentation,
I need to put green.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
Okay.
[Noel] So many
wonderful creatures out there.
It's like Noel's Ark.
[both laugh]
I've got more like that.
[Cristy] I'm gonna do,
like, an isomalt pond.
So I got a photograph of her eyes
and then blown it up
and then got it transferred
into edible paper.
[Amos] I just can't.
Absolutely nothing that can be done now.
[Nicky] I'll just do some texture.
[Tasha] I need to keep going.
[Saku] Several coats to go.
[Nicky] Oh, God. Better get a shift on.
[Amos] Try and get some black on,
but that's gonna weigh it down.
Oh, my word.
[Nicky] He does have a little face coming.
I'm not done. I just need…
I need… I don't know what I need.
I'd like to neaten him up a lot,
but we are where we are.
[Amos] Try and make it look
somewhat pretty.
[Abbi] Oh, he's so cute.
[Nicky] Then the teeth.
I'm now really worried. Time?
Bakers, you have five minutes left.
[gasps]
-[Matty] Got a boss-eyed dog.
-[Josh] We're getting there.
[Dan] My chocolate spaghetti.
[Keith] I've just gotta try
to get the head done fully.
One minute left!
[Nicky] You can do this.
We can give him a tail.
Go on, Norms. Got it.
Your time is up.
This is awesome. Look at that robin.
[exhales heavily]
Piece of poo.
[thunder rumbling]
[Alison] It's judgement time
for the showstopping animal cakes.
Cristy, would you like
to bring up your showstopper?
It's beautifully conceived.
[Paul] I love the colours of it.
-I love that river the duck's sitting on.
-[Prue] This is isomalt lake.
Oh, you've broken his lake.
[Alison] Oh, that's beautiful.
That is a raspberry cake. Lovely.
Oh, that's gorgeous, yeah.
And the raspberry is really tart.
[Prue] It cuts through the sweetness
of the white chocolate. It's lovely.
I must not eat any more of it.
This is Maisie,
and she's bursting with excitement.
Look at her little face.
[Prue and Alison laughing]
Rough and ready.
She'd take that.
[chuckles]
She's made from
lemon and orange sponge cake
with lemon buttercream.
Far more elegance inside
than it is outside.
[Prue laughs] Yes.
-Delicious.
-[Paul] It's a straightforward cake,
and you've got the right level of flavours
running through each layer.
Not oversweet, just full of flavour.
-Well done, Keith.
-[Paul] Well done.
It looks like it's been run over.
-[laughs]
-[Prue chuckles]
[Prue] Really nice cake.
I like the flavour of the filling.
I've never seen a spaniel of that colour.
Me either. [laughs]
[Paul] Oh, right, yeah.
[all laughing]
That's really impressive.
It's really good.
It's orange sponge, lime curd,
and a cherry Swiss meringue buttercream.
It's almost tutti-frutti,
where you've got
several flavours all in one,
and you can't identify any.
I know. I was struggling with what it was.
But it is delicious.
[Paul] It is nice.
It's astonishing to look at.
It's just beautiful.
[Prue] It's so accurate.
That could be turtle shell.
[Saku] This is orange and poppy seed cake
with orange buttercream.
It's quite stodgy.
Mmm. And it's overbaked
quite dramatically.
I think this is a classic case
of style over substance.
He's totally adorable.
Let's see how he tastes.
-[Prue chuckles]
-Sorry.
[all groaning]
[laughs]
Cake looks great.
[Dan] Rich chocolate
with milk chocolate ganache,
and milk chocolate
and dark chocolate buttercream.
Buttercream on the outside
goes beautifully with the chocolate,
so the whole thing is very moreish.
Mmm, and very, very intense.
I think you've done Bruno very proud.
-Oh, brilliant. Thank you.
-[Paul] I think so.
It's charming, and I love the way
one of her eyes is completely gone
-with the fringe.
-[Paul laughs]
[Paul] The coffee
and the date work well,
but there's a lot of buttercream in this.
Quite flat here.
What happened?
Erm, she's quite a flat dog.
[all laugh]
She doesn't have much body to her,
I need to feed her a bit more.
[Noel and Paul laugh]
[Dana] It's banana cake coated
with a cinnamon crumble
and peanut butter frosting in between.
That's a strong peanut, that.
-[Prue] The peanut's quite dominant.
-I'm not getting any banana.
I think less peanut
would have been better.
-Go on, Gracie.
-[Dana chuckles]
She'll have you. [laughs]
You can nick that now, Dan.
Straight off, it looks great.
It's got real character in the face.
-[Prue] Paul's now gonna cut his head off.
-[Abbi laughs]
[Paul] I'll go into its rear quarter.
[Abbi] He is a ginger sponge,
salted caramel buttercream,
rhubarb jam, a hazelnut brittle
and then black sesame buttercream.
The rhubarb jam is excellent,
and so is the cake.
You got a sharpness from that rhubarb,
so the ginger and rhubarb marry,
and that hazelnut is delicious.
With a bit of crunch.
You've done a really good job, Abbi.
Thank you very much.
Amos, would you like to bring up
your showstopper, please?
You can see what it is.
It's a shame
everything's sort of slipped slightly.
[Amos] Caramel sponge,
and then we have a apple buttercream.
Your cake looks a little doughy,
as if it's become compressed.
It's tough as old boots,
and on top of that,
the weight of everything going round it,
so it's concertinaed up.
It's bone dry as well.
Because you've kept it in the oven.
Very stodgy, oversweet.
Not your best day.
Not in the slightest.
Nicky, can you bring your showstopper up?
Here we go, Norman.
So, Nicky, tell us about your beaver.
[contestants laughing]
[Prue laughs]
All right, I'll try again.
So, Nicky, tell us about your showstopper.
Norman is made out of chocolate cake.
He's got a blackberry jam
and he's got a chocolate ganache
that's got some rum it.
-[Paul] Straight out of a cartoon.
-[Prue] It's beautiful.
[Paul] Very heavy on the fondant
on the outside, really thick.
It's quite a solid cake, Nicky.
Do you think you overbaked it?
-A little, but--
-A lot.
A lot.
Texture's all wrong, unfortunately.
It is solid, and it shouldn't be bone dry.
It's a real shame.
Tasha, would you like to bring up
your showstopper, please?
That is incredible.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] It's sensational.
[Paul] The pipe work,
the colour, the stance.
You know instantly what it is.
This robin has personality.
So I've made a tahini sponge
with a chocolate, ginger
and tahini buttercream.
I think of tahini as a savoury flavour,
and this is a cake,
and it's not too savoury
and it's not too sweet,
it's just very delicious.
I don't like that, Tasha.
I love it.
[Prue chuckles] God, what a relief.
[Paul laughs]
I thought I was going to have
my first big battle with Paul Hollywood,
because I would have gone to the wall
to defend you if he'd meant it.
I love the flavour of the tahini.
And actually the tahini
with the chocolate,
you've got a nice balance between the two.
And it's such a big cake.
That's a lot of work in that.
You've done a fantastic job.
Thank you so much.
[sighs] Oh, my God.
Wow. That was so much better
than I could have ever imagined.
It's a complete disaster.
Where do I rank?
Blech. Bottom?
Praying to all the Gods
out there, fingers and toes crossed.
[Nicky] I would be over the moon
if I was here next week,
but it would also be a shock. [laughs]
[Noel] So it's been Alison's
first week in the tent.
-It's been lovely--
-Slotted right in.
[Alison] I love our bakers.
I don't wanna see anyone go today.
Dan's done very well, again. And Cristy.
-Abbi has as well.
-Abbi's done really well.
But it is gonna be tricky
to decide who's gonna go home.
-For instance, Amos.
-[Prue] Yeah.
When you looked at his orca,
the problem was it was so dense.
I think it automatically puts Amos
in a very difficult position.
I have to put Dana into that position.
The peanut overwhelmed everything.
Somebody else struggled
over the last couple of days.
-Nicky.
-It was Nicky.
Her beaver looked amazing,
but it was bone dry.
-Yeah. I don't like dry beavers. Do you?
-[Prue chuckles]
-Hate dry beavers.
-Am I in a Carry On film?
-[laughs]
-Stop this.
[screeching]
Congratulations, bakers.
You've got to the end of Cake Week.
Now, I've got the lovely job
of announcing Star Baker of the week.
The first Star Baker is…
♪ D to the A to the N ♪
You know it's Dan.
[all applauding]
Congratulations!
Unfortunately, that leaves me
with such a horrible job,
'cause it's the first week,
we're getting to know you, but sadly,
someone does have to go.
And that person is…
Amos.
I'm sorry.
-[Nicky speaks indistinctly]
-It's all right.
[indistinct chatter]
[Paul] Sorry, mate. You did a good job.
[Amos] It was obviously the showstopper
that stopped my show.
As soon as I heard my name,
I came out of my body.
[crying]
[sniffles]
Sorry, I'm fine. Sorry.
[sighs]
[exhales]
-[Alison] You were amazing.
-Thank you. Thanks very much.
I'm shocked that I'm here,
and I'm really, really sad for Amos.
What a warm-hearted, lovely man he is.
[Prue] The fact that you've gone home
is not the end of the world. You got here.
[Amos] It's been amazing
being in that group of people,
walking in that tent on that first day,
and it's softening the blow a little bit.
-Well done, Dan. It was so good.
-Oh, thank you so much.
Surreal. Surreal, honestly.
The dog did us proud.
And he won me Star Baker,
so, nice one, Bruno.
[Abbi] I'm really pleased for Dan.
They say you're gonna be
like a family and I was like, "No."
But actually, like, you are.
The thought of losing
just one of these people is devastating.
The thought that we're all gonna,
one by one, drop off
is like, "Oh, my goodness."
[closing theme music playing]